Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about what is outsourcing
what is it not.
We're going to try to dispel some myths and try to put a finger on what exactly is the definition that
we're going to be working with throughout this course.
Now I'm going to tell you this up front I'm actually going to use the term outsourcing and a little
bit of a different way than you used to it's not the most strict definition of outsourcing.
But for this course it's going to make a lot more sense.
So let me try to explain to you what exactly I mean when I say outsourcing and then what in general
does outsourcing mean.
So I'm I'm sure you've heard the term over and over and over again with the advent of the Internet outsourcing
became a real thing.
You know back in the 90s it was kind of a hot topic but now it's kind of a case that everyone does it.
And still though when people think outsourcing they kind of think of what the first permutation of outsourcing
was which was what do you think of right a call center in the Philippines or some like outsourced Human
Resources Division in India that your company takes so much information to sends it to them and it comes
back done well.
You know you're right in a sense right.
So outsourcing does include those things like call centers and outsourced human resources.
But it includes a lot more.
The stereotype of outsourcing.
Yeah.
It's like low wages and poor English that's it everybody thinks of when they think of outsourcing.
But in reality outsourcing is quite literally anything you contract out to someone who is not in the
same country as yourself.
Now if you were to give some work to say someone who lives down the street there in your country in
your state city we wouldn't consider that outsourcing traditionally.
But if that person you gave that information to that job to sat across the border somewhere or on the
other side of the world then we would consider that outsourcing.
Now a lot of people use it incorrectly.
They use outsourcing when they say something like oh you know I don't want to do this work I'm going
to outsource it.
But when I say outsourcing I specifically mean taking work and getting it done outside of your country.
Now if you just did it to someone else in your country typically I get to refer to that as just contracting
now out of country.
That's a very important distinction and it actually keeps you in kind of the reason why it was sent
or offloaded in the first place.
So now if you contracted it to someone in your country or say you did or a company did you probably
think maybe they did it because the company didn't have the right expertise.
Or maybe they did it because they at capacity.
They couldn't find their own human resources to be able to do some task or some specialty.
Now almost without a doubt.
When you outsource it outside of your country.
The main point is that you're trying to take advantage of cheap labor costs somewhere else.
Now it's not just limited to labor costs.
Other countries have cheap virtually everything and outsourcing is especially popular with web applications
mobile applications because as long as they have an internet connection there's not a lot of other kind
of fixed cost associated with them working from anywhere in the world.
So now what are things that typically get outsourced.
Well honestly tons and tons of stuff you know back in the 90s they started off with outsourcing smaller
things things that are more easy to outsource like say a web site development or say some like accounting.
But nowadays it's really expanded to almost anything.
You know you can outsource a mobile application you can outsource a web application.
You can outsource event promotion marketing social media management public relations.
You can do human resources I've seen outsourcing for hiring and firing.
I've seen outsourcing for consulting.
I've seen outsourcing for.
Yeah I mean strategies and even like large research projects will outsource quite a bit.
I mean I've even seen recruiting being outsourced.
I've seen people hiring Indian firms to help them recruit other people to hire locally.
I've even seen people use outsourcing for trying to find a date.
Now you need to kind of wrap your head around this is that every single company in the world.
Virtually every single company in the world outsources something at some point in time in their company's
lifespan.
Virtually any large company probably has multiple outsourcing operations going on.
There's even companies that have over 50 percent of their actual business processes outsource currently.
So really the question isn't should I outsource.
It's a question of what do I have that's eligible for being outsourced.
And what do I have that would be something that's a good idea to outsource.
And lastly what are you comfortable outsourcing.
Every single company has certain things that they'd be comfortable outsourcing and not comfortable outsourcing.
So the question should you outsource.
I'm obviously going to say yes it is extremely helpful.
It's a fantastic way of not only saving money and getting your projects done on time but it's an easy
way of reaching out and getting expertise that there's no way you would have had your self you couldn't
build yourself and you couldn't possibly have recruited in-house one of the biggest reasons why I say
outsourcing is you can be literally anyone you can be a broke college student or you can do some gigantic
fortune 500 and you can outsource really anything you can think of.
And the prices can be surprisingly cheap.
You do not need a traditional budget to get large applications or large projects done.
Okay.
So really the main takeaway from this lecture is that when I say outsourcing I mean that you're taking
your work and you're trying to find someone in another country to get it done.
And the reason why you're doing that is because the costs are going to be cheaper and it's going to
allow you in some way to accelerate your growth either as an organization a freelancer or just an individual
with the project idea.
Now the question of should you outsource How should you and what should you.
Well that's what the entirety of the Course is about.
So by the end of the course you're going to be a master in getting your project done saving money saving
time and making everybody else think you're a wizard because you can certainly just conjure up whatever
you want to get built and it's done and you did it without breaking the bank.